DOCS-12018-dw-string-v2.4-cv (#39)
mulesoft/docs-dataweave: modules/ROOT/pages/dataweave-formats.adoc

[[dw_readers_writers]]
== DataWeave Readers

DataWeave can read input data as a whole by loading it into memory or by indexing it in local storage and, for some data formats, read data sequentially in parts by streaming the input. The indexed reading strategy implements a mechanism to avoid out-of-memory issues when processing large files. The streaming strategy can improve performance but impacts access to file.

[[streaming]]
[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a", options="header"]
|===
| Read Strategy | Description | Supported Formats
<.^| In-Memory

> | Enables random access to data by parsing the entire document. When using this strategy, a DataWeave script can access any part of the resulting value at any time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Enables random access to data by parsing the entire document. When using this strategy, a DataWeave script can access any part of the resulting value at any time. Parses the entire data in memory.
```
Add what differentiate from the indexed strategy

| DataWeave can read all supported formats using this strategy.
<.^| Indexed

> | Enables random access to data by parsing the entire document. When using this strategy, a DataWeave script can access any part of the resulting value at any time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Enables random access to data by parsing the entire document. When using this strategy, a DataWeave script can access any part of the resulting value at any time. It uses disk space to avoid out-of-memory issues on large files.
```

When processing a `String` with a size larger than 1.5 MB, DataWeave automatically splits the value in chunks to avoid out-of-memory issues. This feature works only with `JSON` and `XML` input data.

You can configure the maximum size DataWeave uses to split strings by modifying the following system property:

```
com.mulesoft.dw.max_memory_allocation

> ```

Reviewer 2: I think there is a mistake here.
DW uses com.mulesoft.dw.max_memory_allocation property to determine if the current string need to be splitted.
So strings bigger than com.mulesoft.dw.max_memory_allocation (by default 1.5MB) will be a candidate to use this split strategy.

maybe this could be more accurate:
You can configure the threshold that DataWeave uses to determine if a String is a candidate for this splitting strategy by modifying the following system property:
com.mulesoft.dw.max_memory_allocation

//can we show an example of a valid value? Is 4096 (chars) the default?

Note that using this feature has a negative impact on performance due to splitting strings and accessing them through local storage. If your environment has enough resources to load all content in memory, you can also disable this string management feature completely by setting the value of the following system property to `false`:

```
com.mulesoft.dw.buffered_char_sequence.enabled

> ```

Reviewer: We were discussing if this behavior should be documented here and maybe we could add this to the dataweave-memory-management section. Because these details seem to fit more there than in this general page.

[[dw_readers_writers]]
== DataWeave Readers

> DataWeave can read input data as a whole by loading it into memory or by indexing it in local storage and, for some data formats, read data sequentially in parts by streaming the input. The indexed reading strategy implements a mechanism to avoid out-of-memory issues when processing large files. The streaming strategy can improve performance but restricts file access to be sequentially, because you can access only the part of the file that is being read and stored in memory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
DataWeave can read input data as a whole by loading it into memory or by indexing it in local storage and, for some data formats, DataWeave can read data sequentially in parts by streaming the input. The indexed reading strategy implements a mechanism to avoid out-of-memory issues when processing large files. The streaming strategy can improve performance but limits file access  sequential access (and not random access) because you can access only the part of the file that is being read and stored in memory.
```

Reviewer 3: "to be sequentially," needed rewording for a grammar fix.
